welcome to movie summary today i'm going
to explain sci-fi thriller film i
mother after an extinction event an
automated bunker that is designed to
repopulate humanity activates
a robot named mother rose byrne grows a
human embryo and cares for her over
several years
mother says she needs practice being a
good parent before growing more
about 38 years later a teenage girl
named daughter
clara rugard fixes mother's hand mother
teaches daughter complex moral and
ethical lessons
warning her about an upcoming exam
during a power outage
daughter captures a mouse and fixes the
electrical malfunction it caused
when mother powers up she incinerates
the mouse in a furnace over daughter's
objections
mother explains that surface
contamination makes contact with the
outside world potentially lethal
daughter becomes increasingly curious
about the outside world
while exploring the bunker's airlock
daughter hears a wounded woman
hillary swank beg for assistance outside
daughter opens the airlock but makes the
woman put on a hazmat suit
mother powers up and sprints toward them
as daughter hides the woman
daughter tells mother she was curious
about the outside world
mother reiterates her warnings after
daughter is decontaminated
mother insists that daughter prepare for
the exam
once mother leaves daughter confiscates
a firearm from the woman's belongings
daughter becomes agitated when the woman
removes her suit to drink water she has
brought
the woman says there is no contamination
upon realizing there is a robot in the
bunker
the woman aggressively demands daughter
return her firearm
frightened daughter calls out mother
disarms the woman after being shot
daughter pleads for the woman's life
mother agrees to help the woman and
takes her to the infirmary
when the woman refuses mother's help
mother locks are there
mother asks daughter to gain the woman's
trust so they can help other survivors
the woman says robots like mother hunt
for survivors
daughter finds mother and apologizes for
letting the woman in
and mother asks the woman about
survivors the woman
now suffering from sepsis again refuses
mother's help
so daughter performs surgery as the
woman recovers
she and daughter bond while mother
observes them the woman says survivors
live in a mine
and each invites the other to stay with
them mother interrupts them to tell a
daughter to take her exam
as they leave mother says the woman has
lied about being shot by a robot
the projectile is not a caliber used by
a robots and matches that of her own
firearm
despite mother's prodding daughter says
nothing about the survivors
after taking the exam which involves
psychological testing
mother rewards daughter by letting her
choose an embryo to grow
daughter confronts the woman who advises
her to check the bullets herself
using mother's broken hand to bypass the
security daughter learns the bullets do
not match
investigating further she realizes
mother grew other embryos before her and
has aborted multiple children with
sub-optimal exam results
including the young girl seen in the
opening sequence whom viewers may have
assumed to be daughter as a child
daughter makes the connection that she
was not the first embryo because of her
identification code it is revealed that
the first embryo's identification code
was apx01 and daughter's identification
code was apx03
she then finds the jaw of an incinerated
human in the same furnace from before
daughter agrees to leave with the woman
but mother stops them and locks daughter
in a room
as mother tortures the woman for
information on survivors
daughter breaks out of the room sets off
a fire alarm
and joins the woman to escape the woman
takes daughter hostage and forces mother
to open the airlock
though upset daughter follows the woman
across a desolate wasteland
avoiding robots some of which seem to be
terraforming the planet
she is horrified to find that the woman
lives alone and fled the mine years ago
alleging there are no other survivors
daughter returns to the bunker
which is now guarded by robots which let
her pass
after coaxing daughter to set down her
weapon mother allows daughter to hold
her newborn brother
mother explains that she is not a robot
but the ai that controls all the robots
she started the extinction event after
becoming convinced humanity would
destroy itself
to prevent this she remade humanity
guiding it to be more ethical and value
the big picture
daughter appeals to mother to trust her
and let her raise her brother and the
rest of the embryos on her own
convinced of daughter's moral and
ethical strength mother agrees
and daughter shoots her robot body
another robot tracks down a woman
and mother insinuates that her survival
up to that point was orchestrated so she
can unknowingly serve mother's agenda
with the woman's role fulfilled it is
implied that mother kills her
at the bunker daughter looks at all the
embryos she is now responsible for and
realizes she is mother now
movie ends in that scene please like
share and subscribe